'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-OWNER" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
crabgo\-owner \[em] Manage the owners of a crate on the registry
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcrabgo owner\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-\-add\fR \fIlogin\fR [\fIcrate\fR]
.br
\fBcrabgo owner\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-\-remove\fR \fIlogin\fR [\fIcrate\fR]
.br
\fBcrabgo owner\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-\-list\fR [\fIcrate\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This command will modify the owners for a crate on the registry. Owners of a
crate can upload new versions and yank old versions. Non\-team owners can also
modify the set of owners, so take care!
.sp
This command requires you to be authenticated with either the \fB\-\-token\fR option
or using \fBcrabgo\-login\fR(1).
.sp
If the crate name is not specified, it will use the package name from the
current directory.
.sp
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/publishing.html#crabgo\-owner> for more
information about owners and publishing.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Owner Options"
.sp
\fB\-a\fR, 
\fB\-\-add\fR \fIlogin\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Invite the given user or team as an owner.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-r\fR, 
\fB\-\-remove\fR \fIlogin\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Remove the given user or team as an owner.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-l\fR, 
\fB\-\-list\fR
.RS 4
List owners of a crate.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-token\fR \fItoken\fR
.RS 4
API token to use when authenticating. This overrides the token stored in
the credentials file (which is created by \fBcrabgo\-login\fR(1)).
.sp
\fICrabgo config\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html> environment variables can be
used to override the tokens stored in the credentials file. The token for
crates.io may be specified with the \fBCARGO_REGISTRY_TOKEN\fR environment
variable. Tokens for other registries may be specified with environment
variables of the form \fBCARGO_REGISTRIES_NAME_TOKEN\fR where \fBNAME\fR is the name
of the registry in all capital letters.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-index\fR \fIindex\fR
.RS 4
The URL of the registry index to use.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-registry\fR \fIregistry\fR
.RS 4
Name of the registry to use. Registry names are defined in \fICrabgo config
files\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&. If not specified, the default registry is used,
which is defined by the \fBregistry.default\fR config key which defaults to
\fBcrates\-io\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print crabgo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Crabgo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcrabgo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Crabgo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where crabgo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCrabgo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.crabgo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcrabgo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/crabgo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Crabgo. Run \fBcrabgo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Crabgo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB0\fR: Crabgo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB101\fR: Crabgo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'List owners of a package:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
crabgo owner \-\-list foo
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Invite an owner to a package:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
crabgo owner \-\-add username foo
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Remove an owner from a package:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
crabgo owner \-\-remove username foo
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcrabgo\fR(1), \fBcrabgo\-login\fR(1), \fBcrabgo\-publish\fR(1)
