'\" t
.TH "CARGO\-LOGIN" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
crabgo\-login \[em] Save an API token from the registry locally
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBcrabgo login\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fItoken\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This command will save the API token to disk so that commands that require
authentication, such as \fBcrabgo\-publish\fR(1), will be automatically
authenticated. The token is saved in \fB$CARGO_HOME/credentials.toml\fR\&. \fBCARGO_HOME\fR
defaults to \fB\&.crabgo\fR in your home directory.
.sp
If the \fItoken\fR argument is not specified, it will be read from stdin.
.sp
The API token for crates.io may be retrieved from <https://crates.io/me>\&.
.sp
Take care to keep the token secret, it should not be shared with anyone else.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Login Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-registry\fR \fIregistry\fR
.RS 4
Name of the registry to use. Registry names are defined in \fICrabgo config
files\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&. If not specified, the default registry is used,
which is defined by the \fBregistry.default\fR config key which defaults to
\fBcrates\-io\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-v\fR, 
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Use verbose output. May be specified twice for \[lq]very verbose\[rq] output which
includes extra output such as dependency warnings and build script output.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.verbose\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-q\fR, 
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
.RS 4
Do not print crabgo log messages.
May also be specified with the \fBterm.quiet\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when colored output is used. Valid values:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBauto\fR (default): Automatically detect if color support is available on the
terminal.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBalways\fR: Always display colors.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fBnever\fR: Never display colors.
.RE
.sp
May also be specified with the \fBterm.color\fR
\fIconfig value\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html>\&.
.RE
.SS "Common Options"
.sp
\fB+\fR\fItoolchain\fR
.RS 4
If Crabgo has been installed with rustup, and the first argument to \fBcrabgo\fR
begins with \fB+\fR, it will be interpreted as a rustup toolchain name (such
as \fB+stable\fR or \fB+nightly\fR).
See the \fIrustup documentation\fR <https://rust\-lang.github.io/rustup/overrides.html>
for more information about how toolchain overrides work.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIKEY=VALUE\fR or \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Overrides a Crabgo configuration value. The argument should be in TOML syntax of \fBKEY=VALUE\fR,
or provided as a path to an extra configuration file. This flag may be specified multiple times.
See the \fIcommand\-line overrides section\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/config.html#command\-line\-overrides> for more information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-C\fR \fIPATH\fR
.RS 4
Changes the current working directory before executing any specified operations. This affects
things like where crabgo looks by default for the project manifest (\fBCrabgo.toml\fR), as well as
the directories searched for discovering \fB\&.crabgo/config.toml\fR, for example. This option must
appear before the command name, for example \fBcrabgo \-C path/to/my\-project build\fR\&.
.sp
This option is only available on the \fInightly
channel\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/book/appendix\-07\-nightly\-rust.html> and
requires the \fB\-Z unstable\-options\fR flag to enable (see
\fI#10098\fR <https://github.com/rust\-lang/crabgo/issues/10098>).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h\fR, 
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Prints help information.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-Z\fR \fIflag\fR
.RS 4
Unstable (nightly\-only) flags to Crabgo. Run \fBcrabgo \-Z help\fR for details.
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
See \fIthe reference\fR <https://doc.rust\-lang.org/crabgo/reference/environment\-variables.html> for
details on environment variables that Crabgo reads.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB0\fR: Crabgo succeeded.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+02'\fB101\fR: Crabgo failed to complete.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Save the API token to disk:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
crabgo login
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcrabgo\fR(1), \fBcrabgo\-logout\fR(1), \fBcrabgo\-publish\fR(1)
